climate change,a topic that has been appealed to public ,to rise consciousness ,is already making us overwhelming. wildfire in california and heatwaves in india have been raging more fericely.stronger typhoon in tropical areas have been flooding more drastically.Now these events are called new normal,which clearly points out we would live in a more hostile environment for the next decade.however,this is not a full picture.public often use social media or news to get imformation, which secludes us from what scientists and entrepreneurs are actually doing.

to know what has been done ,we can trace back to 2000. many countries used coal to generate power or boost their economy, for poor countries, coal was the cheapest to use.at roughly 2010 we expected this trend to continue. but as it turns out, it is quite different. 

for country like india or china ,the annual CO2 emissions have leveled off or slowed down. country like US or most of the Euroupean countries,the emisson have plummeted. 

More than 130 countries have pledged to reach net zero before 2050.27 countries have wrote net zero in policy document.16 have enact net zero in law.

so what is net zero ? there three phase of decarbonizing.phase 1 is carbon neutral, where the emission of carbon dioxide, in overall, is neither increasing or decreasing. phase 2 is net zero, where we reduce greenhouse gases including methane and nitrous oxide etc. phase 3 is carbon negative , where we eliminate carbon from the atmosphere.

therefore ,it's safe to say that coal is dying.

Since this decade, solar energy is now ten times cheaper.wind energy is now five times cheaper,which is even cheaper coal. coal is just not competitive any more. the reason why renewable is so much cheaper than before is because they follow the learning curve. learning curve basically tell us .the more infrastructure of technology you implemented, the cheaper they gets.

however, u may feel like arguing that renewable is unstable .replacing coal burning based energy with renewable energy has has sth to do with energy storage. well guess what, lithium ion battery is now nine times cheaper.

and thanks to modern technology,these invisible shifts goes beyond the energy sector. 

we are rapidly changing our blub into LEDs,creating innovations like low carbon cement and artifitial meats. and we havn't even talk about carbon capture.

so everthing is fine then? the situation is still dire and problematic. those depolyments on each fields are nearly not fast enough to reverse the problem that causing climate change.so what's the point of focusing on this side of story? 

there are three p's when addressing a environmental problem.so it's personal ,perceptible ,and solutions are pratical.
is climate change perceptible ,of course. is the solution practical? no , it's very complicated .
but for the first time. we saw some treadlines pointing solidly in the right direction. despite the fact that climate change is personal ,people tend to overlook this problem ,thinking an individual make no impact on it .thereafter,people feel tired of making tiny thing that matters like eat less meat or use less electricity.To keep those tiny thing as a habit, we need hope .And i hope u you got that today ,or just a little.
